# Calculations of Geoidal Heights

In this project, I attempt to calculate the geoidal heights in different points, by using gravimetric models and measurements.

## Recommended python version

For this project, I used Python 3.11.3 in my virtual enviroment. I am not exactly sure how different python versions will affect the program, but I recommend using the same version as mine.

## Installing conda on mac

In order to use PyGMT (the library used for visualization of the data), you need to install conda. Conda is an open-source, cross-platform, package manager that is needed to install python packages. 

### First step:

Go to the documentation page, download the miniconda installer corresponding to your python version: https://docs.anaconda.com/free/miniconda/miniconda-other-installer-links/

### Second step:

Run the installer, and follow the steps provided by the installer. 

### Third step:

Verify that conda is installed by running 

```bash
conda --version
```
in your terminal.

## Setting up the virtual enviroment on mac

Head to the root folder of the project:

```bash
cd ~/Desktop/my_project
```
Create the virtual enviroment:

```bash
conda create --name myenv python=3.11.3
```
Activate the enviroment:

```bash
conda activate myenv
```

## Creating the conda_requirements.txt and the pip_requirements.txt

After entering the venv, type these two commands to create or update the text file containing the current packages installed in the venv:

```bash
conda list --export > conda_requirements.txt
```

and then 

```bash
pip freeze >> pip_requirements.txt
```

Because the formats for pip packages and conda pacakages are different, they have to be separated into two different files. The first command creates or overwrites a .txt file containing the conda packages, and the second command does the same, but for pip packages.

## Installing the dependencies

When the user is inside the venv and wants to install the dependencies for the project, they have to use these two commands: 

```bash
conda create --file conda_requirements.txt
```
and

```bash
pip install -r pip_requirements.txt
```

The first one installs the conda packages, while the second one installs the pip packages.

## What is __pycache__?

These files are automatically generated by Python to store compiled bytecode files (.pyc) for modules that are imported. These bytecode files help speed up the loading of modules. They do not need to be changed even though they're a bit annoying.


## Usage

```python
import foobar

# returns 'words'
foobar.pluralize('word')

# returns 'geese'
foobar.pluralize('goose')

# returns 'phenomenon'
foobar.singularize('phenomena')
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first
to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.
